Basic linux commands:
diff : display the differences in the files by comparing the files line by line. 
awk : manipulating data and generating reports.
chmod : change the access mode of a file
netstat: Displays various network related information such as network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, multicast memberships 
traceroute : command in Linux prints the route that a packet takes to reach the host.
crontab: system process which will automatically perform tasks for you according to a set schedule. 
grep :a command used in searching and matching text files contained in the regular expressions.
pwd : it shows the directory you’re currently in.
ls :It presents to you the contents of a particular directory – both files and directories. You will use this command alongside pwd to navigate your way inside the mighty Unix filesystem.
cd: Short for Change Directory, the cd command is behind your movement from one directory to another. 
mkdir:create a new folder through the terminal
rmdir:delete specific folders from your system without any hassles.
lsblk:list the available block devices of your Linux system.
mount : Contrary to Windows, whenever you plug in an SD card or a USB, chances are your distro won’t show them directly at the start. You need to mount it with your existing filesystem using the mount command. 
df:The df command that display essential information about the disk space on your filesystem
uname : obtaining system information like name, version, and other system-specific details. 
ps : allow you to visualize what processes are currently run by your machine. 
kill : kill command is a way to stop processes that are stuck due to resource constraints. 
service : The service command is the de-facto command to invoke system-wide services from the terminal.
batch : tool that will run system services in a pre-defined schedule, the batch command is here for your redemption.
shutdown : Feeling a bit lazy and don’t want to click a few GUI elements at the end of a long night? The shutdown command is here to empower your Linux terminal commands skills to a whole new level
touch : The touch command is an essential Linux command for creating a valid empty file. 
cat : Designed initially for concatenating multiple files,use to create new files,view file contents in the terminal,and redirect output to another command-line tool or file.
head : The head command allows you to view the beginning of a file or piped data directly from the terminal. 
systmctl, :Sysctl helps to configure the Linux kernel parameters during runtime.
